h2. Mathematica Textmate Bundle

TextMate is a popular text editor for Mac OS X. For more information about the editor, 
visit "Macromates":http://www.macromates.com/, the author's web site.

Mathematica is a computational software program used in scientific, engineering, and 
mathematical fields and other areas of technical computing. It is created by 
"Wolfram Research":http://www.wolfram.com/.

This bundle allows TextMate to understand Mathematica .m files. 

It was created by David Howell and is being maintained by David Howell and Shad Sharma.

Special thanks to Eric Wort whose invaluable help has saved this developer countless
hours of random debugging.

h3. Installation

Open up a terminal and navigate to the TextMate bundle folder:
@$ cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles@
*NOTE*: You may need to create this folder first.

Clone the bundle's repository using git:
@$ git clone http://github.com/dehowell/mathematica-tmbundle.git Mathematica.tmbundle@

By default, TextMate interprets .m files as Objective-C. You will have to switch the
language to Mathematica in order to activate the bundle.

h3. Stuff That Works (for the most part...)

This TextMate bundle is a side project for us and still has a far way to go. It is,
however, being actively developed. 

h4. Language Features

 * Operators (there are a lot!)
 * Constants (@True, False, Null, Automatic, All@)
 * Comments (@(* This is a comment *)@)
 * Lists (@{a, b, c}@)
 * Parts (@[[1, 2]]@)
 * Some function calls (@FunctionName[..]@)
 * Strings (@"Hello World!"@)
 * Symbols (@thisIsASymbol@)
 * Named patterns (@x_@)

h4. Snippets

 * SetDelayed (Shift+Enter)
 * Module (module ->|)
 * BeginPackage (package ->|)
 * Begin ... `Private` (begin ->|)
 * Do (do ->|)
 * For (for ->|)
 * If/Condition/True, If/Condition/True/False, If/Condition/True/False/Otherwise (if ->|)
 * Map (map ->|)
 * Select (select ->|)
 * While (while ->|)
 
 * We always need: more snippets


h4. Other (Commands, Indentation, etc.)

 * Removed indentation rules. They caused more problems than they fixed.
 * Documentation for Current Word (control + H)
 * Block comments (command + /)
 
 * Reformat current statement / selection (control + Q)
 * Preview current statement / selection in tool tip (control + shift + enter)

 * Command completion (option + escape)

 * Execute current statement / selection (shift + enter)
 * Clear mathmate session (command + shift + >)
 * Quit mathmate kernel (command + shift + control + >)
   * If Mathematica crashes, an exception will be displayed in the MathMate output as follows:
     Connected MathLink program has closed the link, but there might still be data underway.
     At this point, you should use this command to restart the kernel (you will lose previous kernel state).
 * Shutdown mathmate backend (command + shift + option + >)
 
 * Better handling of Mathematica kernel crashes
